Kia ora tātou, welcome to our Assignment 3 video.
Assignment 3 is 1500 words long and is worth 40% of your overall grade, and in Assignment 3 you'll
apply socio-emotional and cognitive theories of human development to your chosen case study. So
that's the same case study story that you used in Assignment 2, and just like in Assignment 2,
we're looking for clear examples from the case study that are connected to theory. We're looking
for that really well-developed application of the theories that you choose to focus on.
So the first section of this assignment is focused on the work of Eric Erickson and we recommend this
is around 450 words. We highly recommend you use a Newman and Newman reading from the course to
help you with this section, along with other course resources. So we are looking for a brief
but thorough introduction to Eric Erickson that covers the principles of his theory, his big
picture, sort of what he thought about what drives to human development. We're looking for
a good identification of the stage that applies to the main character in your case story,
and we're looking for a really detailed explanation of that stage. What we don't
want to see here is every stage Erickson has listed and unpacked, just the one that's relevant,
and you may include consideration of the previous stage and how you felt your case story character
resolved that stage. When you're making those judgments calls about how they've resolved that
previous stage, make sure that you're basing that in the information that's available and
you're not implying what isn't there. We're looking for really well-developed examples that
make those links between the information you've explained about the theory and the case story
character really clear to us. And then for the second socio-emotional theory, you're going to
choose a second theory that addresses aspects of psychosocial development relevant to your
case story character from that list that is in the assignment instructions. The theory that you
choose should be appropriate for your character's age and context, and you may want to just use one
theory here, or you may use a couple. It's really up to you. Some theories are better suited just
to have one and go really in-depth, and others perhaps you don't have as much to write about,
and then you need to bring in a second or perhaps a third. No matter how many theories you introduce
here, for each one you would provide an introduction that includes the principles
or the big ideas of the theory, a description of the relevant stages or concepts for your character,
and at least one example from each stage or concept from the case story,
and making those connections again between the case story example that you've chosen and the theory.
If the theory that you've chosen has stages or a sequential pattern to it, you may want to mention
the resolution of the previous stage or concept that came before, but don't imply what's there.
Not all theories will have that, and not all case stories will work for that. You may not
have the information you need to make those judgment calls. Your mark is looking for very
strong developmental analysis using excellent examples from the case story, and we're also
looking for really good use of course resources. So use the course textbook, use the course readings.
You'll see in the list of options that we've provided you with this section,
some are very clear theories and others are more concepts or a bunch of ideas that are linked
together, but they're not necessarily tied to one theory or theorist. Ke te pai, that's all good.
You can use those bunches of ideas or those concepts to explain socio-emotional development.
That works. It makes sense sometimes to combine multiple theories when the theories build upon
each other as well, and we suggest this section's around 450 words. So for the third assignment task
you're going to select one cognitive theory from the list we've provided. Again, it might be that
you need to use more than one cognitive theory, that's okay. So you're going to choose that
cognitive theory, choose one that best applies to the developmental age and stage of the character
in your case story. It can be any of the cognitive theories in that list, and it needs to be something
that we've covered in the course. Again, you'll give a brief introduction including the principles
or the big ideas of that theory. You'll give a description of the relevant stages or concepts
for your character, where they're at in relation to the theory, and at least one example for the
theory or the concept that's well applied. If you're using an adult case story, you also need
to address post-formal thought, so you'll have that one cognitive theory that you've chosen from
the list, but you'll also have post-formal thought as a separate section. And you need to focus that
you'll, in this section, you need to focus your writing on cognitive aspects of development.
Occasionally, one of the theories that we include in that list, they might have socio-emotional
aspects and cognitive aspects. Make sure you, if that happens, you focus on the cognitive aspects.
Quite often in this section, childhood story, case stories, use Piaget.
All adult theories do have to include post-formal thought as an extension of Piaget,
so sometimes it might make sense to touch on Piaget as well, but not always.
We recommend this section is around 450 words,
and so for some of you, it will make sense that those 450 words are all applied to one theory,
particularly if you're doing a childhood story. If you're doing an adult one, some of those words
will go to post-formal thought as well, and sometimes you might have two or three cognitive
theories here, just depending on the one you chose and how much information you have to work
with and what you think is going to serve you best. We're looking for really great introductions to
the principles of the theory or the theories that you've chosen. We're looking for really good
discussions of the relevant stage that your character's at, and we're looking for strong
developmental analysis using really good examples from the case stories. And again, you're going to
need to use course resources in this section, so we want to see course readings in the course text
there. So which theories should you choose for that second socio-emotional section and the
cognitive section? The theories that you choose need to be theories that have been covered in
the course, and to help you with that, we've provided the list in the assignment instructions.
That being said, not every theory that's in that list is a good fit for every case story.
Some theories are going to be a better fit for some stories than others, and some of the
theories in that list will be really inappropriate to use in some case stories. There are options
there for each case story, but you do need to use your discernment to choose well.
The final written section of the assignment after you've done all of your theoretical analysis is
the evaluation section. So this section we recommend keeping it brief, it should typically
just be one paragraph at the end. And in this section you're going to focus on the usefulness,
or otherwise, of your chosen developmental theory or theories. So you may just choose to focus on
one theory that you've analysed in your assignment, you may choose to focus on a couple.
And we're really looking to hear your voice, your opinion on the theory.
We don't want a summary, we don't want a conclusion summary of what we've just read,
we want to hear your opinion and your critique. We want to hear about the strengths and
limitations that you're seeing in the theory. This section should be reflective, you can use
'I', you can talk about your learning, you can talk about your use of theory in the real world,
and make connections. We're looking for excellent insights and full marks
evaluations, they're the ones that bring the critique and show that deeper understanding
of theory, because you can talk about what's good about theory, but also what some of those
limitations of the theory are. Okay, so let's talk referencing. Just like in assignment two,
we're using APA 7, and each section of your assignment, apart from the evaluation,
should have at least one reputable source cited, but more likely more than one. We
want to see you using course readings, we want to see you using the course textbook.
Just like in assignment two, we don't want to see really old sources that you've found
on the internet, we want to see your engagement with course resources.
If you want some help with assignment, with APA referencing, do check out the resources on the
Massey website, consider sharing your draft with a writing consultant, or using the pre-reading
service. Again, just like in assignment two, make sure you've got citations in the body of
your work every time that you are sharing or talking about an idea that's not yours.
Paraphrase as much as possible, and avoid those direct quotes.
Remember to include page numbers with each citation. And then every citation that you
use goes into the reference list at the end, which is a really good idea to, at the end of
your assignment writing, check your draft and look for every citation, and check that every citation
is in the reference list, and then do the opposite. Check your reference list and make sure every
reference is in the assignment. It can be really easy as you're refining your drafts that you end
up with citations that are not in the reference list, or that they are in the reference list,
but you've taken them out of your written assignment as you've made amendments.
So just like in assignment two, you're required to use the course textbook and course readings,
particularly that Newman and Newman one, in this case. And you'll see in the marking guide
that we assign quite a few points for engagement with course readings. It's a really clear
expectation that we have. It's essential that you make clear where in the course resources
your information came from. So that means including the page number with the course
resource. So St Troch 2024, page five, for example. That's really important for us as markers,
so that we can see where your ideas have come from at MIGS. And we do go and check those sources.
If you have any questions about this, please do reach out in the forums. We're happy to answer
them. Marking guide. So we have 10 marks assigned for Erickson, 10 marks for your
second socio-emotional theory or theories, and then 10 marks for your cognitive theory,
or cognitive theories, depending on how many you use, four marks for the evaluation,
and then five marks for use of literature and academic writing. And if you check in the marking
rubric, you'll see that of those five marks, a lot of them are for that engagement and course
resources that we're expecting to see. Your AI statement, just like with assignment two,
is worth one mark. And we expect for that mark, you need to have the statement fully filled in
correctly on the Massey template. If you've written your own,
then you will not receive that mark for the AI statement.
The distribution provides clues to the word count balance. So we're looking for a pretty
even spread across the three theory sections, and then the evaluation section is much shorter.
Make sure you do that final check with your draft, looking at your draft, and then looking
at the marking rubric and ensuring the things that we have outlined in the rubric are there
in your written assignment. Assignment presentation. So the goal here is to make
your writing as easy to understand as possible for your marker. No really long sentences.
Good use of paragraphs. Good use of headings. We provide some heading suggestions in the
assignment report format guide on stream. You don't need an introduction or conclusion.
You do need to submit the correct word files or PDF files, and the Dropbox won't accept other file
types. Make sure once you've submitted your assignment that it is fully submitted
and isn't still sitting there in draft format too. It's an easy thing to have happen.
So just like in assignment two, this assignment is set for the AI planning level. So you can use
AI tools for planning, idea, development, and research, but cannot use them for drafting text,
refining, writing, or evaluating your work. You need to keep a version history of your assignment.
If you need some help with that, there's information in the AI Essentials string site
on how to create a version history or keep a version history.
Your marker may request it, or I may request it as course coordinator.
So that is a requirement that that version history is available should it be requested.
If you didn't get the one point in assignment two for your AI statement, you may want to go back to
the assignment two video, where I talk in a bit more detail on how to fill in an AI statement.
But the key things really are making sure you're using the Massey template,
which is that download this Word document in the green label there,
and making sure that Massey template is filled in.
And so if you do use AI, you need to fill in both sections. The option two, where you tell us about
it, and then also all of the prompts that you use on the second or third page of that statement.
Just keep scrolling and make sure it's all filled in.
Again, submitting the AI use statement is compulsory, and we do follow up
with those who haven't submitted them. If you need support with your assignment writing,
there are a range of assignment resources that we've linked in the assignment book for you,
and we really do encourage you to reach out and read the information that's there or engage with
the support services. Massey have a whole team of people there to support you, and all of those
support services are free for students to use. So just like in assignment two, we're going to
just like in assignment two, we have the one week grace period that you can use if you need extra
time. If you're going to need an extension beyond that one week grace period, it's really important
that you get in touch with us ASAP. Our ability to approve extensions for assignment three are
really limited. They're limited by grade processing deadlines that we have to meet.
So reaching out if something has popped up as soon as possible,
it's important. We'll do what we can to help, but we will require that supporting documentation too.
The more you communicate with us and communicate early gives us the best opportunity that we can
to provide that support that you may need. In assignment three, because of those grade processing
deadlines, once that assignment dropbox is closed, submissions are no longer accepted.
So you need to plan to submit on time or by the end of that grace period, unless you've
organized an extension to avoid that stress. Submitting on time here is really important.
We don't have a lot of leeway to work with.
Finally, if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to ask in the assignments forum or the
Ask a Librarian forum or reach out to a team member. We're here to support you every step
of the way. There's the online office hours for sessions too that you can drop into and ask your
questions. Remember to stick to the instructions, follow the instructions, make good use of the
course readings in the textbook, and you've got this. We're wishing you every confidence as you
complete assignment three and we're really looking forward to receiving and marking your submissions.
Go well, have a great rest of the day.
